#summary How to use NRobotRemoteConsole

= NRobotRemote Console =

== Configuration ==

=== Config File ===

The config file _NRobotRemoteConsole.exe.config_ is used for _log4net_ configuration. By default log information is written to the console and also to a _rolling_ log file called _NRobotRemoteConsole.log_. Additional appenders can be added, see Log4Net documentation.

=== Command Line ===

The following command line arguments are used:

|| -p || the port number ||
|| -k || specify the libraries, types, doc files to load. Multiple items in format _assembly:type:docfile_ where docfile is optional ||

*NOTE* The _type_ name should include the namespace.

=== Hosting Multiple Keyword Types ===

NRobotRemoteConsole can host multiple keyword types. These are exposed to robot framework XmlRpc at url:

http://(host):(port)/(typename)

*Example:*
The following command line loads two keyword types from two different libraries:

<code>
NRobotRemoteConsole.exe -p 8271 -k UILibrary.dll:UILibrary.UIKeywords OracleLibrary.dll:OracleLibrary.OracleKeywords
</code>

The keywords are then exposed to robot framework at url's:

  * http://localhost:8271/UIKeywords
  * http://localhost:8271/OracleKeywords

== Starting and Stopping ==

To start NRobotRemoteConsole.exe supply the above command line parameters. <br/>
To stop NRobotRemoteConsole.exe:

  * Press Ctrl+C in the window
  * Close the window
  * Execute keyword "STOP REMOTE SERVER"
  * Call XmlRpc method stop_remote_server

== Monitoring ==

A remote _NRobotRemoteConsole_ can be checked to see if up and running by pointing a web browser to http://host:port. This will display information on the NRobotRemote instance, and the available keywords. This is also useful for example if NRobotRemote is started via Ant, the http condition can be used to wait for it to start.